Hey guys! So, in this video we're going to
download SourceTree, a nice visual front end
to Version Control. We'll be creating local
and remote repositories, using a .gitignore
file, so not everything is tracked. Connect
to GitHub or BitBucket, if you prefer, I'll
show you the differences, and share your repository
in the discussions. So, let's put all this
in context, I'll draw you a nice diagram,
as we go, but let's start off by talking about
just getting SourceTree and why we'd want
to use SourceTree. So, if you go to Google
and do a Google search, like this, for SourceTree,
then you will find www.sourcetreeapp.com is
one place to get it. It's also part of Atlassian's
software suit, so you could go via there,
you get the same thing, and SourceTree is the
visual front end. And then, you also have
a product by Atlassian called Bitbucket, which
is their equivalent of GitHub. So, if we go
to GitHub, then I could just go to the root
of GitHub. This is GitHub, although because
I'm logged in it doesn't quite look like the
front of GitHub, and then, this is SourceTree
and Bitbucket. So, SourceTree and Bitbucket
are under Atlassian's Eco System. GitHub and
actually GitHub Desktop is new and available
now, and it might be fine, it might do a very
similar thing, you see it's going to show
you pictures. So, you've got a couple of different
options, there's actually lots of different
options for version control. I use SourceTree
as a visual front end by these guys, but I
use it with GitHub, because GitHub is a little
bit more commonly known and I like this funky
graph, and basically I also find it works
a little bit better with GitHub. Let me just
show you what I perceive to be the pros and
cons of these two remotes. So, locally it
doesn't matter, we're going to use a Git based
system. You could use GitHub on the Command
Line, you could use SourceTree, or you could
use GitHub's Desktop Tool, but in terms of
what we use as a remote repository you've
got the option of GitHub or Bitbucket and
others. GitHub is very well known and it's
got great support on the web, whereas Bitbucket
is less well known. GitHub plays very well
with SourceTree, where strangely I found that
creating remote repositories with BitBucket,
in a single step, doesn't work so well with
SourceTree, which is crazy when BitBucket
and SourceTree are both by the same company,
but the major difference that most people
consider is that GitHub is not free for private
repositories. If you don't want your source
code to be open, it's fine for the course
for it all to be open, but when you start
making commercial games, you may not want
open source. So, you've got to decide whether
you pay GitHub or whether you go to BitBucket
and get free private repositories. So, you
can use either GitHub or BitBucket. I'm going
to suggest that you do download SourceTree
through, as a visual front end. You don't
have to, it's entirely up to you, and again,
you just search for SourceTree. Get that downloaded
and installed on your machine, pretty simple,
and it's this program that you've seen me
using. OK, so once it's installed on your
machine, then what you have is, as I say,
this visual front end. Then, what you're going
to need to do is you firstly create your Unity
project, is the first thing you do, so you
make yourself a new Unity project. Now, think
about where you put this. I have a folder
called Repos, I have under my user I have
something called Repos, it's a fairly standard
name, and it's easy to access on the Command
Line, if you want to use that later. And then,
inside Repos, I'm just going to call it test.
We're going to have your Unity Folder, so
here we go. Now, how does Unity work? It's
going to create another folder inside BenTest
alright, so that's not where I want it. What
I want is something inside my Repos folder,
so you tell Unity just to go to Repos, and
then, whatever I call it here, so TestProject,
will be a new folder. That's how Unity works,
you've probably got that by this stage in
the course. So, let's go see what Unity has
created for us, under TestProject, here you
go. And then, you've got Assets, Library,
etc. Alright, so there's your project, so
you've created on your disk a Unity project.
I'm just going to represent it here as a box,
that's just a folder, if you like on your
machine, so here it is, and it's got assets
and various other things in it as different
file names. OK. I'll just do that to make
it look like a folder. So, we've done that,
that's fine. Go ahead, do that yourself, make
your Unity project. The next thing you need
to do is open up SourceTree, and you're going
to make create a local repository. What's
that do? Well, let's do it first and I'll
show you. You browse to the place that you
just created, which was TestProject the folder,
and you can give it a name, TestProject is
fine and it's of type .git. We're going to
use .git not Mercurial, it's the type of version
control. We're also going to create a remote
repository. Now, when you do this, you will
probably not have any accounts where, and
you'll need to figure an account, i.e. put
your GitHub or Bitbucket user name and password
in. Now, if it doesn't come up on this screen,
at this point, you can Cancel out of it, you
can click on Remote here, in SourceTree, and
then, the little cog icon in settings,as i got there. Remote
cog icon settings. And then, you can say Add
Account and you can call it GitHub or Bitbucket,
and then, you put your user name and password.
I've got both GitHub and Bitbucket selected.
I'm actually going to make GitHub my default,
these days. Fantastic! So, let's run through
it again. You Create a Repository, and there's
already a folder, so you're not creating a
folder, you're just creating a repository.
You point it to the Unity Folder, you also
create remote, you may as well do that in
a single step and this works really well in
SourceTree. Create. Now, what's this actually
doing for us? Well, let's go take a look,
before we go any farther with creating the
remote, let's see what's happened. It looks
like nothing has happened here, and it may
not have done yet. Actually, I'm taking a
risk showing you this now, let's take a look
at it though, with hidden files shown, so
I've got a shortcut here. Yeah, it's made
a .git folder, and if I go into .git, it's
a hidden folder, if I type straight. It's
a load of stuff in a .git folder, so that
is basically what creating a local repository
does. The folder must already exist, it's
Unity's folder, and what it does is by creating
a repo you're adding in a .git file, there,
OK into the folder and it's hidden. So, that's
what you've done at this stage, and now we're
going to create a remote repository. Well,
I'm just going to put it straight into my
GitHub account. I'm going to call it Test
project, and it's Private no, because you
haven't paid for GitHub, so It can't be private.
Create. So, it's now created a remote repository
and linked them together, so if I go on to
TestProject here, and then, I go to Push then
it already has something called origin. By
default it calls this remote thing origin,
that's fine. On the left here, you can leave
it as origin or you could call it GitHub,
I tend to leave it as origin, but if you're
working with multiple remotes, you could call
it GitHub. I mean I tend to leave it as origin,
but if you're working with multiple remotes,
say for some reason you want to push to GitHub
and SourceTree, I wouldn't suggest you do
that but then, you could call one origin and
one GitHub. So, when you see weird stuff on
the web like, GitPushOrigin, it could be saying
GitPushGitHub but origin is just the default
remote name. OK, so what we've got at this
stage is SourceTree is tracking all of the
local files, so what it's doing is it's acting
as a database, and SourceTree is kind of standing
here looking, if you like, at what's going
on. So, here's just an eye to say that it's
looking at the contents of this folder and
storing everything that it sees about the
differences, into this hidden folder structure,
and there, s lot of files it's tracking. Now,
the ones we don't want it to track, are these
library files, because they're basically temporary
files. So, we're going to now a .gitignore.
Now, I've got a .gitignore that I just naturally
use here, and I've even got a shortcut for
it and I'll give it to you in the Assets.
So, what you do is you put a .gitignore file
right here, right at the root of your Unity
Project Folder here, along with the .gitignore,
and your assets, and all the rest of them,
i.e. in this folder here. It's already got
that .git folder. Remember now we're going
to put a .gitignore now. I've got a keyboard
shortcut, that I've forgotten [Laughs] Let's
try again. Now, what that's done for me is,
it's copied this .gitignore file in here,
and then, it's reminded me to set visible
meta files in Unity. So, over in Unity for
Version Control to work properly you're better
going to Project Settings, Editor, and then,
over here where it says Version Control, Visible
Meta Files. That means that certain files,
when you make changes, will be visible and
will be tracked by Source Control. You want
that, so set Version Control in Project Settings,
Editor, Mode, Visible Meta Files, so set that,
and then, let me show you what's in this .gitignore.
It's got a bunch of instructions as to what
you are going to ignore, and it's going to
ignore the Temporary Folder, the Library Folder,
and a bunch of others. So, I will provide
it as a download to this lecture, and in the
section assets. I'll provide this .gitignore
file for you. Alright, and then all you need
to do is put it into the folder. Now, on a
Mac that can be a pain, because everything
is hidden, so there's a way that you can show
hidden files in Finder on the Mac, if you
want to do it that way, or you can get used
to using the Terminal. This is the command
you need, take a look at that. In Terminal
on the Mac, which you open just by going to
Terminal in Spotlight, you can put defaults
write com.apple.finder show hidden files equals
YES, and when you do that, you can then go
down to Finder, hold down the Alt Key, Right
Click, and say Relaunch. Ah, on Windows it's
probably easier to show your hidden files,
and at this point, it's now showing you hidden
files, so you're seeing the .gitignore and
the .git folder, alright. So, that's what's
really going on, and those hidden things here
are corresponding to the red and the green
that I've shown you, in there. Alright, so
we've got a database, it's watching what we're
doing. If we now go back to SourceTree and
we stage all these things, then we're saying
OK we're about to want to commit all of these
of these files, because there's a .gitignore
in there... I'm just trying to drag this bar.
...it's no longer any of the Library Files.
The moment I add .gitignore the Library Files
get ignored. OK, and then, I'm going to call
it initial commit. It's good to start with
an empty project and then, an initial commit.
Alright, so do that. You've made your initial
commit, and you have something to track now.
If we then were to go into Unity, for example,
and create ourselves a script... Now, I want
you to make a hidden message to your friends
in the discussions, and I want you to just
say something fun in a script or in some UI
text or something, so that they have to go
and find it. OK, it's going to be a part of
the fun of this video. So, I'm just going
to open up a script in here, and I'm just
going to say print ("You found the sausage");
And if they find that then they'll see sausage
is the keyword. So, back in SourceTree, if
you've saved your script, watch what happens.
I've committed changes, it goes Oh cool! I've
noticed the addition of something called MyScript
and the Meta File, because we made them visible,
and in MyScript you've added all this stuff.
Cool hey! So, you can stage those files or
Stage All, and then, you can Commit, like
this: Added script. Just say what you did,
and we won't worry about pushing for the moment.
So, now we've got two changes. Now, you go
back here and I say print ("something changed");
OK, save the script, go back to SourceTree,
and look what it's doing. Bless it, when it's
ready. Come on SourceTree, you can do it!
There you go! [Laughs] And now I just stage
everything, look what it does. OK, it thinks
a bunch of stuff has changed now, because
I actually bothered to save my project. So,
here you go here's a lesson. You need to save,
before you do your commit, you need to save
your project and ideally your scene as well
and then, you're capturing everything. So,
Control S, and Save Project, now you're capturing
everything, so I'll put it all into the commit
but crucially, MyScript. Something changed
or Added something. OK, now that we're saving
fully the Unity project, only these changes
will come in. print ("added something else");
Save that, save the project, save the scene,
it's a good habit to get into, you'll see
me doing this as we go through the section.
Look at the changes, and again there's a load
of changes to a load of things, because I've
saved the Unity project, but the one we care
about is the change to MyScript, it added
something else. Yep! OK fantastic! So, now
we have a little bit of history in here, which
is great. So, once you've got this history
and you're getting it all in place and your
Unity project, what I want you to do is I
want you to push this up to GitHub. So, we're
going to push the Master Branch, don't worry
about branches for now, in fact just use the
Master Branch. We're not even going to cover
branches in this whole course, it's another
course. We're just going to push Master to
Origin. You'll see that on the web a lot,
which is another way of saying push Master
to GitHub, it's going to push. Now, you may
need to authenticate yourself to GitHub, and
once you've authenticated, I'm not going to
do that on the screen, then over on GitHub
you will have yourself a repository, which
you can then go and find and share the URL
of. So, if I go to GitHub Ben Tristem, it
would be something like this. Here is the
MarbleMaze, here would be your repository.
I want you to grab that repo URL, Paste it
into the discussions, and challenge people
to download your project, which they can do
with a .zip here, or they can take a clone
straight into SourceTree, but that's a bit
more advanced. And they can go and find your
hidden message for them. And then, you've
done it, you've setup SourceControl and you've
shared with people in the community. So, look
it's going to take you some time to go off
and explore. I'm not giving you a complete
hand holding with this, I want you to work
it out for yourself, to some extent but this
is the fundamentals of how we use SourceTree.
So, try and get it working yourself. Don't
struggle too long! If you're struggling, just
carry on, and do it without Source Control,
but I wanted to give you this choice and I
will show you how I use Source Control, as
we go through the section. So, I hope that's
been helpful to you. Do go off and struggle
and look and use stack overflow and work out
how to use SourceTree, with Unity yourself.
And remember to download my doc, get it from
the Section Assets and from this video. OK
see you!